In his almost
four decade long
military career, retired General
David Petraeus faced
plenty of insurgencies,
mainly Iraq and Afghanistan.
What do his insights
from an extraordinary
career tell us about this new war
between Israel and Hamas?
David Petraeus joins me now
alongside the historian Andrew Roberts.
The two are coauthors
of the new book Conflict
The Evolution of Warfare
from 1945 to Ukraine.
Andrew is, of course, now
Baron Roberts of Belgrade.
You have been elevated to the peerage.
Dave, let me start with you.
This issue of destroying Hamas.
Is that a realistic goal?
I think it is a realistic goal,
but it's going to be
exceedingly difficult.
We've seen how long it takes
to clear cities roughly
the size of Gaza City.
Nine months
for the Iraqi security forces
to clear the Islamic State out of Mosul.
As an example, with our assistance,
IDF much better, much more capable.
But still, it's going to be very,
very tough in how they do
it is very important.
Again, we had a question on the wall
always, Will this operation
take more bad guys off the street
than it creates by its conduct
and you've got to be careful
that the answer to that
is going to be yes.
And there has to also be a vision
for the future.
They can accomplish this mission.
But then keep in mind
that the definition of destroy
in military
doctrinal terms is render
the enemy
incapable of accomplishing his mission
without reconstitution.
So whatever it is
that follows has to ensure
that this cannot be reconstituted.
Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad will try to come back
so that whatever it is
that takes over from the Israelis
and they have to determine that urgently.
Ehud Barak was absolutely right on that.
But they're not going to just do
humanitarian assistance
or reconstruction.
They're going to have to conduct
a counterinsurgency campaign
to keep Hamas in the Islamic
Jihad from coming back.
When you did the surge,
one of the things
that seemed to be so successful in that
postwar operation was you brokered
a reconciliation between the Sunnis
and the Shias politically. Yes.
So, I mean,
do you need some kind
of political vision? Very much so.
There has to be a vision
for the people in Gaza,
for the Palestinians,
that distinguishes very clearly
the war is not on them.
It's actually to make their lives better.
If they will reject Hamas,
their life will be better.
By the way,
the same for those in the West Bank.
There has to be that.
And again,
what we did is we said to the Sunnis,
if you'll break with Al Qaida
in Iraq, support us first
and then the government and then later.
The same with the Iranian supported
Shia militia. Let's strip you away.
And of course, we defeated
then the other elements,
the militia
that remained, and also al Qaeda in Iraq
and the Sunni insurgent groups.
So that that vision is crucial.
And again,
I think Ehud Barak had
that exactly right as well.
A quick thought on
Hezbollah before I go to you.
Do you think Hezbollah will
launch a serious attack from the north?
I don't think they want to do that.
But the pressure will grow
as the damage and destruction.
Inevitably,
there are going to be
civilian casualties.
Urban combat is fiendishly difficult.
And I can't imagine
a context
that is more difficult than this one.
Hundreds of miles of tunnels,
suicide bombers, an enemy
that doesn't wear uniforms,
uses human shields,
civilians, and,
of course, the over 200 hostages
that are still there.
So that's going to be very,
very challenging for them.
And again, you have to have this vision
that's going to try
to separate the people from Hamas.
Again, also in the West Bank as well.
Hezbollah, though,
got hammered
in 2006, much worse than we realized
at the time.
We reassessed at several occasions.
They'll do the occasional attacks
and all the rest of that.
I don't think they want to launch
all 150,000 rockets,
which would be devastating for Israel,
but then would be even more devastating
for Hezbollah. And they know that.
And just operationally,
of course, it's also very good for Israel
to be able
to promise
the Palestinian Arabs
that they will be able
to go back to Gaza,
because then you could
physically also separate them
from the Hamas
that you're trying to fight in Gaza.
Lots in history that bears that out.
Historically, historically.
You talk about
militia has been
one of the great successes
of counterinsurgency.
What do you draw
as the key lesson
to succeeding in a counterinsurgency?
Well,
the way that Malaysia worked
is that they were able to offer
the people independence.
Malaysia became independence in 1957,
and that was immensely important
in winning
what was said at the time
to be the hearts and minds.
That was coined the phrase.
Yes, exactly.
And that.
Meant they matter and no matter here as.
Well.
And so Gerald Templer
coined that phrase and and it worked.
And it wasn't just in Malaysia.
It also worked in the Oman campaign
where they were able to offer
progress sexual, physical,
educational, agricultural,
medical progress.
And that's also something that obviously
could be an important part to play here.